# Django Tutorial Part 10: Testing a Django web application

As websites grow, they become harder to test manually. Not only is there more to test but, as interactions between components become more complex, a small change in one area can impact other areas, so more changes will be required to ensure everything keeps working and errors are not introduced as more changes are made. One way to mitigate these problems is to write automated tests, which can easily and reliably be run every time you make a change. This tutorial shows how to automate *unit testing* of your website using Django's test framework.

## Overview

The [LocalLibrary](https://github.com/AndrewSRea/My_Learning_Port/tree/main/JavaScript/Server-Side_Website_Programming/Django_Web_Framework/Django_Tutorial_Local_Library#django-tutorial-the-local-library-website) currently has pages to display lists of all books and authors, detail views for `Book` and `Author` items, a page to renew `BookInstance`s, and pages to create, update, and delete `Author` items (and `Book` records, too, if you completed the *challenge* in the [forms tutorial](https://github.com/AndrewSRea/My_Learning_Port/tree/main/JavaScript/Server-Side_Website_Programming/Django_Web_Framework/Django_Tutorial_9#challenge-yourself)). Even with this relatively small site, manually navigating to each page and *superficially* checking that everything works as expected can take several minutes. As we make changes and grow the site, the time required to manually check that everything works "properly" will only grow. If we were to continue as we are, eventually we'd be spending most of our time testing, and very little time improving our code.

Automated test can really help with this problem! The obvious benefits are that they can be run much faster than manual tests, can test to a much lower level of detail, and test exactly the same functionality every time (human testers are nowhere near as reliable!) Because they are fast, automated tests can be executed more regularly, and if a test fails, they point to exactly where code is not performing as expected.

In addition, automated tests can act as the first real-world "user" of your code, forcing you to be rigorous about defining and documenting how your website should behave. Often they are the basis for your code examples and documentation. For these reasons, some software development processes start with test definition and implementation, after which the code is written to match the required behavior (e.g. [test-driven](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development) and [behavior-driven](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development) development).

This tutorial shows how to write automated tests for Django, by adding a number of tests to the *LocalLibrary* website.

